NPM--provide packages for angular....bcoz it has large amount of library
-Anugular has MVC based architature

Questions:
-what is component ?
-what is Lifecycle ?
-what is forms ?
-what is component ?


-if you install node then automaticallly NPM is installed.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

*folder structure guide:
-Most of the time we  will work in SRC folder....if we want to make change in configuration part then we will work outside the SRC folder

-what is package.json file?
Ans:this is the first file that created initially
	- it contains....
		-name of our application
		-version of our application
		-some scripts like ng serve,ng build,ng test,ng lint,ng e2e
		-dependencies of some packages
		-dev dependencies may be...of some packages

-what is node_modules ?
Ans:never ever write code in node_module bcoz it will changed for other developer and  will not be available for other developer 

-what is src folder ?
Ans:95% of the work will be done in this folder.
	it contains environment,assets folder

	-what is environment folder ?
	Ans:when you want to defined some different-different configuration 	on different environment. 
	ex: when we are developing our application then it is dev 	environment 
	    when we are testing our application then it is testing 	environment 	
	    when we are our application is on production then it is 	production 	environment


	-what is aasets folder ?
	Ans: when we are gonna use some extra CSS then we will put it here

	-what is index.html file?
	Ans: this is the first file that is loading on your project when you 	run it on browser.

	what is main.ts file ?
	Ans: it will make a bridge between angular code and index.html 	file.It has the all major stuff.

	what is style.css ?
	Ans: you can make by default(globally) syle in it.

	what is app folder ?
	Ans:In this folder it contains app.module.ts,app.component.ts,app-	routing.module.ts files.

	what is module?
	Ans: it is collection of components.
	ex:Users module	

	what is component ?
	Ans: it is very small functionalities.
	if you want to make a style taht for a specific code then we 	will 	write it here.
	ex:user login,user profile...

	what is editorconfig ?
	Ans:used for making the editor configuration.
	
	what is karmaconfiguration ?
	Ans:maintain the all log for package.json and all version 	controlling and dependencies

	what is tslint?
	Ans:it will help us to write better code
	ex. where you have to use cons, let ...keywords etc
	
	what is typescriptfile?
	Ans: this is for typescript configuration

	what is e2e folder?
	Ans: this means end to end configuraion.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
-what is an interpolation ?
Ans:in simple words "sending a data to component.ts file to component.html."

-what is an variables ?
Ans:we can not use let or const keyword to define variable..bcoz it is class and classes have properties.

-what is an functions ?
Ans: we can not use function keword to define a function.simply write a functionName and use "()".
Ex:foo(){}	

-what it can not do ?
Ans: binding can not assignment.
-we can not use window object here directly but can use in proprty.

-what we can do ?
Ans:we can do arithmatic operation.

-what is an object ?
Ans:we don't use var keyword in it for creating object nor $scop.

-what is an array ?
Ans:we don't use var keyword in it for creating object nor $scop.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Q:How to call a function?
Ans:when we are calling a function or any button click event they both must be define in the same component. 
Means --> button should be defined inside app.component.html file and function should be defined in app.component.ts file.

Q:how to define a function?
Ans:
foo()
  {
    return "Pranay Chaudhari"    
  }

Q:make button and call function on button click..
Ans:need to use button event
(click)="foo()"

Q:pass params with function call 
Ans:(click)="foo('parameter')"

Q:pass property in function params
Ans:(click)="foo(name)"

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact - 9: Important Events in Angular

Important Event in angular
click event
keyup event
keyup with eneter space
keydown
blur
mouseover and mouse leave
get values on textbox
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-10: Ways to get input test box value
get value with value change
get value with value with button click
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-11: Bind a property with Property binding and Interpolation
difference b/w Property binding and Interpolation
-that is Property binding can effect on html element as well as attributes but interpolation not effect on attributes.
Property binding & Interpolation: Means we need some property of class.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-12: Conditions in Angular
Make If Condition
Make If else Condition	
Make Condition with string
Make else if Condition		
Make Conditionwith Property binding 

in order to use else if() we need can do it by Property binding.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-13: Switch case in Angular
when we have lots of cases then we use switch case instead of if else conditions.
ex:show data according to months


Make a property color
show data according to color name
switch case 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-14: For loop in Angular
make Array
apply for loop with it
make a array with object
apply for loop with it in table
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-15: Simple Form in Angular
There are two types of forms
1) Template driven form
2) Reactive form

What is simple form in angular ?
 Import form module in module file
 make a form
 make a function and get form value
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-16: Make Header and Footer in Angular
Create Header component
Create Footer component
Use both component
Add style
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-16:Add bootstrap in Angular
Run command for install bootstrap
Try with some bootsrap example
we check and use code from officical website of ng-bootstrap
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-20:Pass data Parent To Child Component in Angular
Pass data to child component
make users component
make it child of app component
pass data to app to child component
display data in child component
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-20:Reusable Component in Angular
Make a user component
Use it inside app component as child
Pass data from parent to child
Use for loop and result child component
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-20:Send data child to Parent Component in Angular
Make a user component 
Use it inside app component as child
Pass data from child to parent with EventEmitter
-steps to do:
We will make function in Parent component and will call it from the child
So in that way we are able to send the data from child to Parent
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-22:Pipe in Angular
what is pipe?
pipe is used to change the format of data

pipe with string
pipe with date
pipe with slice
pipe with currency
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-23:Basic Routing in Angular
make new angular project
and routing in app-routing-module file
write code in HTML file for making Routing Link 
Test Routing

If you did not select routing option on the project making time
ng generate module app-routing --flat --module=app

stp-1
for routing we need to add atleast two object inside Routs array in app-routing.module.ts file

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path:'user',
    component:UserComponent
  },
  {
    path:'admin',
    component:AdminComponent
  }
];

stp-2
we need to use routerLink="pathName"
ex.routerLink="user"
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-24:404 page not found in Angular
what is 404 page?
make a component
use it 404 page with wildcard routing
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-25:custom directive in Angular
what is dirctive ?
=>use to modify dom element or html element
example of default directive
how to make custome directive
run command ng g directive
use it with html(Note : directive can be used only in html not in ts file)
We need help of ElementRef
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-25:Services in Angular
what is service in angular ?
Ans:Services is used when we want to share data between two or more components.
how to make service
how to use service
example
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-27:API in Angular 
what is API?
how to make service
how to fetch API data in service
import in component
get data in component
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-27:Model in Angular 
what is model?
Ans:Module and Model are completely different things.
To make model is not neccessary. It is an optional.But it is useful to make application robust.And there is less chance of aaplication errors.
It is data structure of data.It provide the validation to your data.It's a feature of Typescript not Angular.
how to make it
how to use it
with model with other file
use model with component file
use model with service file
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-27:Recap Routing and Model in Angular 
Make Module
And Coponent inside Module
Show Module component
Add Routing and Routing Link
add Module and Routing
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-27:Routing Module in Angular 
what is routing module?
when we define a routing in specific module then it is routing module.
make module with routing file
define routing inside module
make routing link
test
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-27:Group Routing in Angular 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Lact-34:Lazy Loading in Angular 
why we need lazy loading?
Ans:basically when we open angular app without lazy loading by default all routs are loaded at starting.
By the lazy loading we can control over routing more.

Lact-35: Lazy Loading in Angular(making a function)
-using button click load different component and change routing 
We needed for that is 
1)view container Ref: that is making a container where we can place the loaded component.
2)Component Factory Resolver: that will make component from code.

 
Lact-37:Forms
1)Reactive form:it control data  in component.ts file
2)Template driven form:it control and handle data in component.html file

How data flow work?
foem--->.ts file--->Service----->server


Lact-:38:template driven form
when we have a simple form then we use Template driven form.

Note: Import form module in app.module file

 
Lact-:40:template driven form validation
need to use #fieldName 
-touched form event is important


Lact-:41:template driven form validation:disable submit btn
email validation
max and min validation 
regex validation
disable submit btn


Lact-:42:Pre Filled form 
done

Lact-:43: Reactive form
-what is reactive form
-import ractive form module
-make html form
-define form group
-get form value


Lact-:44 : Reactive form Validation
-make html form
-define form group
-get form value
-apply validation


Lact-:45 : Reactive form Validation2
-use of validators array for different types of validation on input field
-submit button disable

Lact-:46 : Angular Automation testing
-Protextor->Run test case on browser.
-Jasmine-> Testing Environment,Run spec file for test case.
-Karma->Run test case in multiple browser.


Lact-:49 : Angular Automation testing
-install angular cli
-make angular project
-install json api server
-install postman

Lact-:50 : Postman and json server
-make resto API json server
-how to use Postman
-Test GET,POST,PUT,Delete API

Lact-:51 :Resto app| add routing :make menu
-add routing for
add
update 
login 
register
list of restaurant

Lact-:52 :Resto app| add bootstarp and nav bar
add bootstrap npm install --save bootstrap
apply style in angular.json file "./node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css"
restart ng server
apply bootstrap
add navigation bar
 
Lact-:53 :Resto app| call API service
start api server :json-server --watch db.json
make service
call api in service
add some data in db.json 


Lact-:54 :Resto app| add restaurant form
-import reactive form
-make html form with bootstrap
-make a form group
-get form value


Lact-:55 :Resto app| Sucess Alert and claer form
-clear form and success alert
-use bootstrap alert
-show alert on submit data
-close function and clear submit function

Lact-:57 :Resto app| Detele Restaurant with API
Delete operation
-add font awsome icon
-service for fire delete api
-make delete function and call delete api

Lact-:58 :Resto app| Update restaurant form
Edit operation 
-add edit icon
-make parameterized router
-add form for edit result


Lact-:59 :Resto app| Update restaurant DB with API
get id params from url
make service function for get api
call get api for id
make service function for put api
patch data in form 
call update api
--https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#noPropertyAccessFromIndexSignature
--https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57086672/element-implicitly-has-an-any-type-because-expression-of-type-string-cant-b


Lact-:60:Resto app| Footer and refactor
-change home page with listing
-add new footer
-add headline for updates restaurant
-->link valu chhe aama default vali

Lact-:61:Resto app| Register new user
-make a form
-get form data
-make a service function
-add new user

Lact-:64 Angular 13
what is view engine?--it is removed in Angular13
what is lvy engine?--it is added in Angular13

what is use of Rxjs? Ans: used for state management

